                                Phainocode 4.1
                              Official standard
                     (x) Copyleft, Marїnais, 13.07.2006


                                Foreword

     In 1995, the American Robert A. Hayden released the third version of 
the so-called. "Geek Code", developed as a compact form of transmission by 
correspondents of computer correspondence information about themselves by 
means of specific symbols within the letter. The need for this arose 
because, through computer communications, arbitrarily different people from
arbitrarily different places can communicate, who do not know each other in
advance, never who met each other and did not have time for a long and 
detailed story about themselves to their interlocutors, especially since
there can be a lot of them at the same time.
     Geek code is much more informative than a traditional business card or 
signature, but much more informative than a profile or text autobiography.
His invention is a natural reaction of mankind to the fast pace of life, an
integral part of which has become an active exchange of information,
combined with increased requirements for economy, and a gradual transition
from direct visual communication to abstract, implemented by technical means. 
     In addition to briefly introducing yourself to a pen correspondent, 
another use of a geek code can be a compact and moderately intrusive 
demonstration of your preferences, beliefs, and merits in public, or looking
for an interlocutor or interest partner. Computer correspondents often feel
the need for such self-expression, because computer mail is technically
distinguished by a high degree of impersonality and anonymity. A person, on
the other hand, is psychologically oriented towards communication with an
individual. Users have already fully mastered the implementation of this need
through various technical elements of the letter (pseudonym, greeting,
signature, Tearli-ne, Tagline and Origin, kludges), as well as the [Team ...]
signature. Geek-code, therefore, is not an innovation in this regard and
naturally continues the already tested decision time. 
     Unfortunately, the original version of Geek Code, with all its
progressiveness in basis, both in the style used in the description and in
its ideology too local, focused purely on the residents of the United States
and culturally and economically similar states, and therefore practically not
suitable for users of the Russian-speaking cyberspace. A simple translation
of the description from English and even a slight adaptation of the situation
does not save the day, so, apparently, the only way for its further
development in the domestic environment is in a complete revision of the
original code with its transfer to the current conditions of this
environment. In addition, the original version is largely built as a means of
extravagantly highlighting the bearer of the code among others, similar to
the numerous shocking outbursts of youth fashion. This determined the
insufficient prevalence of geek-code until now and a frivolous attitude
towards it among wide circles of network users. 
     All this led the author of this standard to the idea of ​​developing a new
code that would better correspond to domestic realities and would be suitable
for a much larger circle of users. Starting with a simple adaptation called
"Geek-R", this code, as it evolved, lost compatibility with its American
ancestor and moved from a simple questionnaire to specialized descriptive
languages. In this regard, the author made the decision to assign it a
fundamentally new name "Phainocode" ("Fenocod"; from the Greek. phainomai -
to manifest - commonly used to refer to external signs of something (for
example, the term "phenotype" in biology)) that would emphasize its
significant difference from the Geek Code itself. Also, during the
development, the aforementioned tendencies to youth shocking and
ostentatiousness were completely eliminated. This code is a serious means of
presenting information, aimed at a wide range of people and does not carry
any elite subtext. 
     The author views Phainocode as continuously improving and a system 
adapting to current social and technical conditions. That's why its final
version, obviously, will not be written ever. author makes every possible
effort to make Phainocode relevant and informative enough, while keeping it
highly compact. Insofar as the problem of compact presentation of interlocutors
to each other in human society is quite new, Phainocode does not pretend to be 
its final solution and allows many parallel approaches both within the framework
of similar methods, and on a completely different basis.
    
    List of individuals who contributed to the creation of this standard: 

     Sergey Ermakov (wMaster) +-- (2:5020),
     biowit (Roman Balaev) (2:5020),
     Dima Bystrov (2:5029),
     Alexander Grafsky (2:5020),
     NoZDR (Ruslan Marchenko) (2:5020),
     DimaS Scherbyna (2:5020),
     OLA Dration (BBS Guardian) (2:5020),
     Grax (Dmitriy Balashov) (2:5010).

                           Technical implementation

     Phainocode is a sequence of tokens separated by spaces, each of which 
describes some aspect of the human personality. The token consists of a 
constant marker (defining the described aspect) and one or several variables
(quantitatively or qualitatively characterizing it). 
     Obviously, the sequence of the use of tokens does not matter, since
Phainocode is supposed to be human readable. However, nothing in the structure
of Phainocode itself does not interfere with its interpretation by software,
for which a rigid sequence may be preferable number of tokens. For this reason,
the author strongly recommends using tokens are strictly in the order given
in this description. 
     The tokens used are selected by the user from a variety of possible ones. 
None of these are required. The absence of a token in a specific code does not 
imply the unwillingness of its owner to touch upon this topic in correspondence.
In case, if you want to warn your interlocutors that you avoid discussing some
issue in principle, you should use the metacharacter provided for this (see below). 
     All letters in the code are case-sensitive.
     A token consists of a tag and a sequence of variables.
     There are three types of variables used in tokens: literal, numeric, and relative.
     The literal variable takes as the main part any letter or combination of letters, 
the meaning of which is given in the explanatory text. A combination of several values 
at the same time is permissible. 

     Example: osLW - "I use Linux and Windows'95+";

     Numeric variable takes some integer as the main part a number written in 
10-ary notation, unless otherwise specified in the explanatory text.

     Example: kg75 - "My weight is 75 kg";

     The relative variable characterizes a certain relative value, subjectively 
estimated by you independently, and as the main part takes one of the standard
symbols (1, 2, 3, 4, 5), selected from the scale, given in the explanatory text. 

     Example: veg2 - "I have a negative attitude towards vegetarianism";

     Below in the text, variable designations are enclosed in angle brackets. <l>
denotes a literal variable, <n> is numeric, <s> is relative. If
there are several variables in the token, then each of them is numbered.

The following metacharacters modify the meaning, but they can also replace it,
depending on the meaning. Their order is predetermined. 

   # - "secret"
    Indicates that you do not want to disclose information about yourself on this matter
    (used as an independent meaning).

     Example: b# - "Don't ask me how old I am, I don't admit it anyway!"

   0 - "not relevant"
    Indicates that you objectively do not have the opportunity in this aspect,
    the question is irrelevant to you or is rejected by you (used as an independent
    value).

     Example: Int0 - "I have no access to the Internet."

   @ - "all"
    For literal variables, replaces an enumeration of all possible values
    (used as an independent meaning). 

     Example: WWW@ - "I am a true master of web technologies and I own them all."

   & - "etc"
    Indicates a non-standard answer (used as an independent value for relative 
    variables or as one of the options for whether teral, recorded last). 

     Example: HarB&  - "I am a brunette with a very unusual haircut."
     Example: osLW&  - "I use Linux, Windows'95 + and another rare
                       an operating system that is not listed (e.g. BeOS )."

   ? - "don't know"
    Indicates that you are not aware of the matter and cannot express your
    opinion (used as an independent meaning). 

     Example: dem? - "What is 'demomaking', I do not know, and therefore
                                    I can't tell how I feel about him." 

   ~ - "variably"
    Indicates that your answer to a question is volatile and varies widely
    affairs depending on conditions or your mood (used as meaning alone or 
    in addition to the previously indicated meaning and immediately after it). 

     Example: Har~~ - "I often radically dye and change my hairstyle."
     Example: hum3~ - "I usually have a normal sense of humor, but it happens
                      changeable."

   + - "with a little"
    For relative variables, means your choice of an intermediate value
    on a scale higher than that indicated, but less than the scale division. 
    In combination with the highest value, it indicates your desire to draw 
    attention to a particularly high degree of this characteristic.For literal
    variables, means a higher than usual degree of the selected value.
    (Used in addition to and immediately after the above value). 

     Example: fuk5+ - "I just love to swear! :-)"

   - - "without little"
    For relative variables, means your choice of an intermediate value on a 
    scale lower than that indicated, but by an amount less than the price
    of the scale. Combined with the lowest value means your aspiration to
    draw attention to a particularly low degree of this characteristic. For
    literal variables means a lower than usual degree of the chosen-value.
    (Used in addition to the above value and immediately after it). 

     Example: lng3-fr- - "I know English below average, I know a little
                          French."

   * - "note"
    Means that the specified standard answer requires further clarification
     and is valid only in some of its subdomains (used in addition to the 
     previously indicated value and immediately after it). This symbol 
     serves as a warning to the interlocutor that the information given 
     requires further clarification by means of natural language. 

     Example: wrz4* - "I have a large fund of computer information, but not 
                                    in general, but only of special types."

   $ - "forcedly"
    Means that this characteristic is forced under the influence of 
    circumstances and does not coincide with your inner desire (used in
    addition to and immediately after the above value). 

     Example: ech1$ - "I rarely read echo conferences, because I do not have 
                                                      for this enough time."

   > - "desire"
    Means that the characteristic that follows immediately after this symbol 
    in the form of the "main representation of the quantity" is not valid, 
    but only the one you want (for literal variables it is used as an 
    independent value, for relative variables - in addition to the specified 
    actual value and immediately after it). 

     Example: petc>m   - "I have a cat and I also plan to have a rodent."
             prgaW1>4 - "I want to learn how to program well in assembly 
                        language for Windows'95 +, although for now about 
                              programming from me only theoretical ideas"

   ! - "refusal"
    Indicates that you do not wish to discuss the matter in principle.
     considerations (used as an independent value or in addition to the 
     previously specified value and immediately after it). This symbol
     serves as a warning to the interlocutor. 

     Example: God!  - "I would rather not discuss the topic of religion."
     Example: pol2! - "I am a conservative politically, but this question
                      please do not discuss with me."

   % - "recruiter"
    Indicates that through you it is possible to contact an activist in an 
    activity, associated with the meaning of the token. (Used in addition to 
    the specified before and immediately after). 

     Example: god1% - "I am a big opponent of religion and through me you can 
                            contact an even greater activist in this matter."

   =<s> - "merit"
    For a number of tokens (by meaning) through the relative parameter s 
    indicates assessment of the results of your activities in this field. 
    (Used in addition to and immediately after the above value).

     Example: xsc4=3 - "I have a positive attitude towards unrecognized sciences, 
                             and I have a number of developments in this area."

   < - "attention"
    Indicates your desire to pay special attention to this characteristic (used in
    addition to the previously indicated value and immediately after it). 

     Example: arg5< - "Keep in mind that you shouldn't even try to convince me of 
                                                anything: you will be worse off."

                                Code header
     The main token sequence is preceded by a special header. It starts with a 
     "_" character followed immediately by the main part. 

     She lists your approximate areas of activity, hobbies, or topics which you
     would like to discuss and is a sequence of following designations: 

  A - artistic arts;
  B - biology and medicine;
  C - communications;
  D - home economics and construction;
  E - electrical equipment;
  G - graphics;
  H - social manipulation (hacking);
  J - jurisprudence;
  L - linguistics and semiotics;
  M - mathematics and computer science;
  N - exact natural sciences;
  O - exploitation and improvement of the organism;
  P - computer science {PC};
  S - social sciences;
  T - publishing and proofreading {typing};
  U - journalism;
  W - security and military activities;
  a - mechanical engineering {automobile};
  c - commerce;
  d - design;
  e - education;
  l - literature;
  m - music;
  h - philosophy;
  p - policy;
  s - psychology;
  u - cooking;
  x - non-academic sciences and theories {x-science}. 

     Each designation can be supplemented with the metacharacters described above.
    as literal. 

                                Code tokens

                                Your organism

b<n1><n2><n3>
  Date of Birth:
   The <n1> parameter specifies the day as a two-digit number;
   The <n2> parameter specifies the month as a two-digit number;
   The <n3> parameter specifies the year as the last 2 digits in the Gregorian
   lendar. The parameter can be omitted;

Permitted metasymbols: # + - !
Unacceptable metasymbols: 0 @ & ? * $ > % = <

X<l><s>
  Gender and sexuality.
  The l parameter indicates gender and related characteristics:
    X - female;
    Y - male;
    ' - virginity;
  The parameter s describes the degree of sexuality:
    5 - "I think only about sex";
    4 - active;
    3 - normal;
    2 - below average;
    1 - "antisex";

bod<n><s>
  Body type.
  The parameter n describes the height in cm.
  The parameter s describes the relative nature of the transverse physique: 
    5 - fat;
    4 - thicker than average;
    3 - normal;
    2 - thinner than average;
    1 - thin;

kg<n>
  Body weight in kg.

Har<l><s>
  Hair.
  The l parameter describes the color and related characteristics:
    B - black;
    b - brown;
    g - grey;
    l - light;
    r - red;
    w - white;
    " - wig;
    ' - the hair is artificially dyed;
  The s parameter describes the length/thickness of the hairstyle:
    5 - below the belt;
    4 - from the shoulders to the waist;
    3 - thick hair, but not long;
    2 - short haircut;
    1 - bald or shaved;

har<s1><s2><s3>
  Facial vegetation.
  The s1 parameter describes the beard:
    5 - long beard;
    4 - short beard;
    3 - "weekly unshaven";
    2 - "two days unshaven";
    1 - clean shaven;
  The s2 parameter describes the mustache:
    3 - "like a cricket";
    2 - small;
    1 - clean shaven;
  The s3 parameter describes the sideburns:
    3 - sideways;
    2 - medium;
    1 - absent;

eye<l><s>
  Eyes.
   The l parameter describes the color of the iris:
    B - black;
    G - green;
    b - brown;
    g - grey;
    l - light-blue;
    r - red;
  The s parameter describes the features of vision:
    5 - "I see like an eagle";
    4 - normal;
    3 - "I don't see very well, but I don't wear glasses or contact lenses";
    2 - "I wear contact lenses";
    1 - "I wear glasses";

skn<s>
  Color of the skin:
    5 - "negro";
    4 - swarthy;
    3 - tanned European;
    2 - slightly tanned European;
    1 - "pale toadstool";

drs<s1><s2><s3>
  Clothing.
  The s1 parameter describes the preferred clothing style:
    5 - strictly official;
    4 - with a tendency towards formality;
    3 - standard;
    2 - with a tendency to the caller;
    1 - the caller;
  The s2 parameter describes the fashion of the clothes:
    5 - "according to the last squeak";
    4 - "I try to keep up";
    3 - indifferent;
    2 - with a tendency towards conservatism;
    1 - stubborn conservative;
  The s3 parameter describes the personality of the garment:
    5 - completely individual style;
    4 - "I try to stick to a certain style";
    3 - indifferent;
    2 - "I dress normally";
    1 - "I completely blend in with the crowd on the street";

bad<s1><s2><s3>
  Bad habits.
  The s1 parameter describes the consumption of alcoholic beverages:
    5 - a convinced teetotaler;
    4 - only on special days;
    3 - moderate;
    2 - "I love it more often";
    1 - "Nutro demands regularly."
  The s2 parameter describes smoking:
    5 - "I can't stand tobacco smoke organically";
    4 - "I do not smoke";
    3 - occasionally;
    2 - moderate;
    1 - "This is what my lungs love";
  The s3 parameter describes the use of other psychoactive substances:
    5 - "I don't even eat chocolate";
    4 - "I do not use";
    3 - "I love tonic drinks";
    2 - "I play around, sometimes, with easy means";
    1 - "This is necessary for me regularly to maintain clarity of mind";

Hea<s>
  Your health condition:
    5 - "Healthy as a bull";
    4 - "I hardly get sick";
    3 - "I am sick like everyone else";
    2 - "chronicle";
    1 - "wreck";

hea<s>
  Attitude towards the idea of a rational healthy lifestyle:
    5 - an ardent adherent;
    4 - approving;
    3 - indifferent;
    2 - devil-may-care;
    1 - "It is better to have some fun than torment yourself all your life";

sp<s>
Attitude to physical education:
     5 - professional athlete;
     4 - amateur;
     3 - moderate;
     2 - rarely;
     1 - "frail";

                               Computer

PC<n><s1><s2>
The role of the computer in life.
  The n parameter indicates the year of starting work with the computer in the 
  form of the last 2 digits.
  The s1 parameter describes the intensity of the session:
    5 - almost round the clock every day;
    4 - a lot;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - extremely rare;
  The s2 parameter describes psychological attachment:
    5 - "crazy";
    4 - "I'm fond of";
    3 - "I use it as a familiar tool";
    2 - "I use it only when necessary";
    1 - "I try not to use";

hw<s><l>
  The hardware you have. The s parameter describes the general modernity of the 
  base part of the computer system you are using as your base:
    5 - "Just installed the processor announced 2 weeks ago";
    4 - not older than 2 years;
    3 - typical;
    2 - obsolete;
    1 - "exhibits of the historical museum". 
  The l parameter lists the special peripherals with which you have:
    A - Arvid;
    C - CD burner;
    D - DVD burner;
    M - precision input manipulator;
    P - high quality printer;
    S - Sound adapter;
    a - palmtop;
    d - widescreen display;
    f - digital camera;
    l - plotter;
    m - modem;
    n - notebook;
    p - low quality printer;
    s - scanner;
    v - digital video camera;

Net<s1><s2><s3>
  Attitude towards the main types of computer communications.
  The s1 parameter describes the attitude towards BBS:
    5 - old sysop / regular;
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "They became extinct in the last century";
  The s2 parameter describes the relationship to FTN networks:
    5 - seasoned fidoshnik;
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "A bunch of unshaven fidoras";
  The s3 parameter describes the relationship to the Internet:
    5 - a seasoned Internet user;
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "The World's Dump of Pornography";

net<l>
  Used types of computer communications:
    B - BBS;
    F - Fido;
    I - IRC;
    Q - ICQ;
    U - Usenet;
    W - WWW;
    c - HTTP-chats;
    e - e-mail;
    f - small FTN networks;
    p - file-sharing networks {peer-to-peer};
    u - forums;

Int<l>
  The quality of the Internet access you use:
    5 - dedicated line at home;
    4 - purchased dialup;
    3 - dedicated line at work;
    2 - donated/public/shorthand dialup;
    1 - public places/at a friend's;

com<s>
  What is most important for you in computer communications:
    5 - communication only;
    4 - communication rather than data (passive information);
    3 - both communication and data;
    2 - data rather than communication;
    1 - data only;

msg<s>
  Frequency of reading network correspondence and sending replies to it:
    5 - every day;
    4 - from 1 to 3 days;
    3 - from 3 to 7 days;
    2 - from 1 to 2 weeks;
    1 - sporadically;

ech<s>
  How many network echo conferences do you write out approximately:
    5 - > 500;
    4 - 100-500;
    3 - 50-100;
    2 - 10-50;
    1 - < 10;

sl<s>
  Attitude towards computer slang:
    5 - "IMHO current subject and use it";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "Stop mocking the language!";

OS<s1><s2><s3><s4>
Relation to the main classes of operating systems.
  The s1 parameter describes the relation to DOS:
    5 - "old, but reliable";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "dead long ago".
  The s2 parameter describes the relationship to OS / 2:
    5 - "the best system";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "dead-end invention";
  The s3 parameter describes the relation to Linux (Unix in general):
    5 - "system of the future";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "inventions of eccentrics";
  The s4 parameter describes the relation to Windows (all versions):
    5 - "Of course, but what else?";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "Must die!";

os<l>
  Classes of operating systems used:
    D - DOS and Windows 3.x;
    L - Linux;
    N - Novell Netware;
    O - OS / 2;
    T - Windows NT +;
    U - Unix (except Linux);
    W - Windows'95 +;

prg<l1><l2><s>
  The l1 parameter lists the types of programming languages that you speak:
    A is Ada;
    B - Basic;
    C - C ++;
    F - Fortran;
    J - Java;
    K is Cobol;
    P - Pascal;
    R - REXX;
    V - VisualBasic;
    a - Assembler;
    c - C;
    d - Delphi;
    f - Forth;
    l - Lisp;
    o - Prolog;
    r - Perl;
    x - FoxPro;
    y - Python;
  The l2 parameter lists the operating systems under which you program:
    D - DOS и Windows 3.x;
    L - Linux;
    N - Novell Netware;
    O - OS/2;
    T - Windows NT+;
    U - Unix (except Linux);
    W - Windows'95+;
  The s parameter describes the degree of programming skill:
    5 - masterly;
    4 - not bad;
    3 - medium;
    2 - with difficulty;
    1 - theoretical concepts only;

dem<s>
  Attitude towards demomaking:
    5 - "I write myself";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Freaks, they have nothing else to do";
    1 - "idiocy";

WWW<l>
  What web technologies do you own:
    A - ASP;
    C - CSS;
    D - DHTML;
    F - Flash;
    G - CGI;
    H - HTML;
    I - ISAPI;
    J - JavaScript, VBScript, JScript;
    Q - SQL;
    S - SSI;
    V - VBScript;
    W - WAP;
    X - XML;
    a - Java Applets;
    h - PHP;
    j - JSP;
    p - PerlScript;
    u - Push;

CvP<s>
  What style of programming languages (C/C ++ or Pascal/Delphi) do you prefer:
    3 - C/C++;
    2 - both equally;
    1 - Pascal/Delphi;

wrz<s>
  The size of the available fund of computer information (software,data, 
  digitized data, source codes, etc.):
    5 - gigabytes of "vares";
    4 - a lot;
    3 - medium set;
    2 - little;
    1 - "I try to live at a minimum";

hex<s>
  Do you know how to work with programs at an undocumented (machine) level:
    5 - "I read" hex "like a book, crush any protection";
    4 - quite experienced;
    3 - medium;
    2 - with difficulty;
    1 - "I can't do it at all";


                                  Politics

pol<s>
  Political views:
    5 - anarchist;
    4 - liberal;
    3 - moderate;
    2 - conservative;
    1 - totalitarian;

ec<s>
  Attitude towards regulation of the economy:
    5 - "For completely state administration";
    4 - "I sympathize with public administration";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "I sympathize with the free market";
    1 - "For a completely free market";

Eg<s>
  Attitude towards the idea of equality of people in society:
    5 - "All are born the same and are worthy of equal rights";
    4 - "Good equality allows for exceptions";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Everyone deserves what he has achieved himself";
    1 - "Equality exists only in a herd of sheep";

pub<s>
  Attitude towards publicity and public availability of information:
    5 - "Everything must be open";
    4 - "It is necessary to secret only when absolutely necessary";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Freedom of information must be monitored";
    1 - "Availability of information leads to trouble";

gov<s>
  Attitude towards the current government:
    5 - an ardent admirer;
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "How long will the people endure?" 

USA<s>
  Relationship to the United States and North American Culture:
    5 - "a model for all mankind";
    4 - "I kind of sympathize";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Yankee, go home!";
    1 - "Remove this abomination from the face of the planet";

mil<s>
  Attitudes towards the existence of universal conscription:
    5 - "A worthy army can only be created in this way";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "a cynical kind of legal slavery";

gun<s>
  Attitude towards the idea of legalizing firearms for self-defense [developed by Alexander Grafsky]:
    5 - "like in the Wild West";
    4 - "Allow under strict control";
    3 - "The society is not ready yet, and then we will see";
    2 - "Only employees of organizations at risk";
    1 - "In the state of drunkards and psychopaths, everyone will shoot each other";

exe<s>
  Attitude towards the death penalty:
    5 - "That's right, the freaks must be destroyed";
    4 - "Sometimes it is reasonable";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "Murder is never allowed";

sex<s>
  Your attitude to the sexual revolution:
    5 - "Against this, only physiologically defective";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "unhealthy idea of preoccupied libertines";

abo<s>
  Attitude towards abortion:
    5 - "Parenting must be a licensed profession";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "real murder";

god<s>
  Attitudes towards the participation of religion in society:
    5 - "Yes, we must all live according to the laws of God";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "Tired of these clerics, how long can you cling to the old days?";

(c)<s>
  Relationship to copyright:
    5 - "Without him, no one will create anything";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "brake of progress";

hak<s1><s2>
  Attitude towards computer dissidence.
  The parameter s1 characterizes the attitude towards computer hooligans and virus writes:
    5 - "Wolf - the orderly of the forest";
    4 - "Only the lamer is afraid of them";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "socially dangerous elements";
  The s2 parameter characterizes the attitude towards computer "pirates" and crackers:
    5 - "monopoly fighters";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "commonplace thieves"; 

drg<s>
  Attitude towards the idea of drug legalization:
    5 - "Down with the prohibition that feeds the drug mafia!";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "idiotic inventions of drug addicts";

xsc<s>
  Attitudes towards unofficial (non-academic) sciences and revolutionary concepts in the official sciences:
    5 - "Conservatism" of academics "inhibits cognition";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "There is only one science - official, the rest is charlatanism";

UFO<s>
  Attitude to the problem of UFOs and extraterrestrial civilizations:
    5 - "They've been here for a long time";
    4 - "Aliens do visit Earth, although their role is often exaggerated";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Perhaps there is alien life somewhere, but it is very far away and
         not relevant";
    1 - "Life on Earth is unique"; 

fuk<s>
  Attitude towards obscene language:
    5 - "Only jerks can't swear";
    4 - "a convenient way to express many emotions";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "unless only in extreme cases";
    1 - "completely unacceptable for a cultured person";


                         Psychology and lifestyle

psy<n>
  Personality type, determined by the following empirical test  [Пинт  А.А.
  Самоучитель безопасной езды, практическое пособие. - М.: За  рулём,  1998,
  с. 178]. The test does not pretend to be scientific, but it is convenient 
  in practice for non-specialists. Note also the alternate Psy token described 
  by below. 
  1. Interlace your fingers and notice the hand with the finger on top:
    0 - right;
    1 - left.
  2. Place straightened hands with thumbs spaced apart in front of you so that 
  they form a septum with a gap. Look at a small object through this gap with both eyes. 
  Then, while remaining in the same position, close your right and left eyes alternately. 
  You will only see the object with one eye. Notice this eye: 
    0 - right;
    1 - left.
  3. Interlace your arms over your chest and notice the hand that is on top:
    0 - right;
    1 - left.
  4. Clap your hands and notice the palm on top:
    0 - right;
    1 - left.
  The resulting digits are joined as the digits of a 2-ary number in the order of 1234. 
  Then this number is converted into a hexadecimal representation, in which it is written. 
  Test interpretation: 
    0000 (0) - Orientation to conventional wisdom. Conservatism with the most stable behavior 
               ("correct" type). 
    0001 (1) - Insecure conservatism. Weak temperament. Indecision.
    0010 (2) - Strong type who does not perceive the weak. Determination. Feeling
               humor. Energy. A tendency to flirt. Temperament. Artistry.
    0011 (3) - A rare and independent type. High contact, but honey lazy addiction.
    0100 (4) - Business type combining analytical mind and gentleness
                (type of "business woman"). Slow addictive. Caution.
                Prudence. Tolerance. Delayed development of relations.
                Some coldness. 
    0101 (5) - Weakest type. Defenselessness. Failure to go into conflict. 
               Exposure to various influences. 
    0110 (6) - Restlessness, frequent emotional hunger. Ability not to create conflicts. 
               Some impermanence. Emotional slowness. Languor. Simplicity. Courage in 
               communication. The ability to switch to a new type of behavior. 
    0111 (7) - Inconsistency and independence. Analyticity combined with
                emotionality.
    1000 (8) - Good adaptability. Emotionality combined with sufficient persistence in 
               strategic matters. High susceptibility to other people's influence. 
               Easy contact with almost all other types. Phlegmatic tendency. 
    1001 (9) - Softness, compliance with careful influence. Requires especially
                careful attitude to yourself (type of "little queen").
    1010 (A) - The strongest type, difficult to convince. Perseverance, sometimes turning
               into an obsession with secondary details. Strong personality. 
               The ability to overcome difficulties. Some conservatism due to lack of attention
                to someone else's point of view. Doesn't like infantilism. 
    1011 (B) - Strong, but not obsessive, almost unconvincing. Internal aggressiveness, 
               covered by external softness and emotionality. Fast interaction, but honey
               lingering mutual understanding. 
    1100 (C) - Friendliness and simplicity, some scattered interests.
    1101 (D) - Innocence. Softness. Gullibility. A very rare type.
    1110 (E) - Emotionality combined with determination. The tendency to make ill-considered 
               decisions under the influence of emotions. 
    1111 (F) - The ability to look at things in a new way. The greatest emotionality. Individuality. 
               Selfishness. Stubbornness. The desire for self-defense, sometimes turning into isolation. 

Psy<l1><l2><l3><l4><l5>
  Personality type determined in socionics (analytical psychology C.G. Jung)
   [developed by Sergey Ermakov (wMaster) +-- and Roman Balaev (biowit)]. Work
   with a token requires special knowledge, or consultation with a specialist,
   therefore, as an alternative convenient in practice for non-specialists,
   you can use the psy token described above.
  The l1 parameter describes introversion / extroversion: 
    I - introvert;
    E - extrovert.
  The l2 parameter describes the sensibility/intuitiveness: 
    S - sensoric;
    N - intuitive.
  The l3 parameter describes consistency/ethics: 
    T - thinking;
    F - feeling;
  The l4 parameter describes rationality/irrationality:
    J - judging (rationality);
    P - perceiving (irrationality);
  The l5 parameter describes your temperament:
    c - choleric;
    f - phlegmatic;
    s - sanguine;
    m - melancholic. 

mus<l><s>
  Attitude towards music.
  The l parameter describes the preferred musical styles [developed by Sergey
  Ermakov (wMaster) +-- and Dima Bystrov]:
    c - classical music;
    f - folk music;
    I - instrumental music;
    J - jazz (classical);
    B - blues;
    A - vanguard;
    R - rock;
    M - metal;
    Y - synthesized AY / YM music;
    m - heavy metal;
    p - punk rock (alternative music);
    a - author's song;
    v - popular vocal music;
    d - disco, brit-pop, synth-pop;
    e - electronic classical music;
    r - rap;
    b - breakbeat, jungle, tech-step;
    i - IDM;
    j - jazz (improvisation);
    t - trance, ambient;
    T - techno, minimal;
    h - house, garage, acid jazz;
    H - hardcore, happy hardcore, old school;
    G - gabba, speedcore, noisecor;
  The s parameter describes how often you listen to music:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;

TV<s>
  Do you often watch TV:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;

gam<l><s>
  Attitude towards computer games.
  The <l> parameter describes the preferred game classes:
    3 - 3D action;
    S - strategic;
    e - economic and strategic;
    i - abstract intellectual;
    q - dialogue ("quests");
    s - simulators;
    w - military-strategic {war};
  The s parameter describes how often you play:
    5 - almost round the clock every day;
    4 - a lot;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;

RP<s>
  Attitude towards role-playing games:
    5 - "Without this the world is wretched";
    4 - approving;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - condemning;
    1 - "kindergarten";

hum<s>
  How do you rate your sense of humor:
    5 - big "hokhmach";
    4 - "I like to joke";
    3 - normal;
    2 - "I usually don't like it";
    1 - "I hate nonsense";

lab<s1><s2><s3><s4><s5>
  How do you assess your performance.
  The s1 parameter describes the initiative:
    5 - "easy to climb";
    4 - high;
    3 - medium;
    2 - low;
    1 - "hard to climb";
  The s2 parameter describes hard work on one's own initiative:
    5 - a workaholic;
    4 - quite active;
    3 - average;
    2 - rather lazy;
    1 - a quitter;
  The parameter s3 describes the ability to be hired:
    5 - a workaholic;
    4 - quite active;
    3 - average;
    2 - rather lazy;
    1 - a quitter;
  The s4 parameter describes ingenuity:
    5 - "generator of ideas";
    4 - high;
    3 - medium;
    2 - low;
    1 - template;
  The s5 parameter describes conscientiousness:
    5 - a perfectionist;
    4 - high;
    3 - medium;
    2 - low;
    1 - hack;

lov<s>
  The nature of sexual activity:
    5 - "I have a permanent partner";
    4 - "mostly with an informal partner";
    3 - moderate;
    2 - "Do not mind sometimes flirting";
    1 - active "pickup". 

lib<s1><s2><s3><s4>
  How often do you read literature:
  The s1 parameter describes prosaic fiction:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;
  The s2 parameter describes the verses:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;
  The s3 parameter describes popular science literature:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never;
  The s4 parameter describes scientific, technical and special literature:
    5 - constantly;
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - never; 

edu<s1><s2>
  Education and erudition.
  Parameter s1 describes formal education:
    5 - scientific degree;
    4 - higher;
    3 - secondary or secondary special;
    2 - incomplete secondary;
    1 - initial.
  Parameter s2 describes one's own assessment of actual education:
    5 - "walking encyclopedia";
    4 - quite erudite;
    3 - average;
    2 - below average;
    1 - ignorant. 

lng<s><l>
  Knowledge of foreign languages.
  The s parameter describes the knowledge of the English language:
    5 - perfect;
    4 - not bad;
    3 - average;
    2 - at the beginner level;
    1 - "I don't know".
  The l parameter describes the knowledge of other foreign languages. Languages are specified in
  as ISO 639 2-letter designators listed alphabetically back to back.

mth<s>
  Relationship to the exact sciences:
    5 - an ardent adherent;
    4 - "I respect";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "I do not like";
    1 - "I Hate". 

ph<s>
  Philosophical views:
    5 - a convinced materialist;
    4 - a doubting materialist;
    3 - undecided;
    2 - a fan of mysticism;
    1 - deeply religious. 

God<l>
  Religion:
    C - Confucianism;
    b - Buddhism;
    c - Catholicism;
    e - esoteric religious systems;
    i - Hinduism;
    j - Judaism;
    k - Krishnaism;
    m - Islam;
    o - Orthodoxy;
    p - Protestantism;
    n - the latest religious systems;
    l - other local religious systems. 

co<s>
  Sociability:
    5 - "I am ready to take part even in an official event";
    4 - "I will gladly come to a party, but informal";
    3 - "I can meet, but only in a narrow circle";
    2 - "I agree to talk by phone";
    1 - "I strictly observe virtuality". 

arg<s>
  Your tendency to accept someone else's opinion:
    5 - "No way!";
    4 - "In a dispute, truth is born";
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "Better to agree than to persuade";
    1 - "Just don't hit me!" 

hom<s>
  Dwelling and its interior:
    5 - the dwelling of a madman;
    4 - with some non-standard elements;
    3 - standard;
    2 - "I'm not filling the house alone";
    1 - "I have little of my own." 

cok<s>
  Do you like to cook:
    3 - "I'm fond of";
    2 - "Moderate";
    1 - "I prefer to eat ready-made." 

veg<s>
  Your attitude towards vegetarianism:
    5 - an old vegetarian;
    4 - Young vegetarian;
    3 - neutral;
    2 - "You won't last long on a carrot";
    1 - "We don't keep the vegetarian one!" 

drn<l>
  Favorite drinks:
    C - alcoholic cocktails;
    G - carbonated;
    K - jelly;
    b - beer;
    c - non-alcoholic cocktails;
    f - coffee;
    g - cognacs;
    h - chocolat;
    i - infusion;
    j - juices;
    k - kvass;
    l - liqueurs;
    m - dairy;
    o - compotes;
    r - rums;
    s - mineral;
    t - teas;
    v - vodka;
    w - wine;

pet<l>
  Pets or plants:
     a - amphibians;
     b - birds;
     c - cats;
     d - dogs;
     f - indoor flowers;
     i - invertebrates;
     m - mouses;
     q - aquarium animals;
     r - reptiles;
     v - martens or viverrids. 

nat<s>
  Do you often visit nature:
    5 - "I live constantly";
    4 - often;
    3 - moderately;
    2 - rarely;
    1 - "All nature is somewhere outside the window." 


                            Using Phainocode

Phainocode can be used anywhere in a letter as a continuous block, arbitrarily broken 
into lines. The main body of the code must be preceded by a signature identifying
its version and separated from the rest of the elements by a space. 
For this standard, the signature will be: 

     Phaino 4.1

At the end of the code body, immediately after its last character must be followed by
a comma (;) indicating its end. One of the preferred options for placing Phainocode in
letter is a sequence of kludge. Moreover, it will be conditionally invisible, i.e.
displayed only in the mode of displaying technical information of the letter. In the 
case of FTN correspondence, each Phainocode line must be started with a sequence of 
characters: 

     GC:

which is a common kludge for geek codes.
    Another place to place Phainocode in a letter can be a signature, which is 
technically convenient to organize in most email programs. Signature sizes 
are often limited by FTN regulations, but Phainocode is quite compact and, 
if used judiciously, should usually fit into the prescribed framework.
Below is an example of real Phainocode: 

Phaino 4.1 _BD-L+=1P-Tx*=1 b011279 PC9353 netBFQ-Wp- Int4 com2 msg2$< ech3
osD$W>L Eg1 pub4 USA2 god1 (c)1 hak45+ xsc4 UFO4=1< PsyINTP/INTJm mus01 TV2
gam01 hum2 lab25355 lib11-44 edu45 lng3>eo=1< co1< arg4< petacqr;


                           Additional Notes

Practice has shown that user perceptions of the purpose and application
Phainocode (ex. Geek-R) often contains a number of common errors. Taking 
this into account, the author considers it necessary to make a number of remarks:

- Contrary to the prevailing disapproval in the online community to geek-codes, 
derived from the frivolity, elitism and some monstrosity of their common 
American ancestor, Phainocode does not deserve indiscriminate reckoning 
as a meaningless information "husk", abundantly used in network correspondence by 
inexperienced youth, which is often made on the basis of only general external 
similarities and without due familiarity with the standard itself.

- No code token is required. Attempts to use it instead of a questionnaire, putting 
all possible tokens in the code will most likely not lead to nothing good.

- Despite its formalization, Phainocode was created as a language for human
understanding, not a database for machine decryption. In natural language the 
omission and reduction of information that is not of interest or that can be easily 
inferred from another is constantly used. There is no need to scrupulously specify 
all possible information and details in your code, inflating it to colossal sizes - 
it is enough to describe to them only what is really important for you in the current 
situation and what they cannot guess rest.

- The orientation of the scales of relative values ​​is arbitrary in many cases
(otherwise it is simply impossible to do). You should not look for any ideological 
attitudes or reflections of the author's tastes in them and blame him for this.

- It is possible to prepare and use different versions of the code for different
use cases (for example, different echo conferences depending on a specific thematic 
specifics or a compact version for echo conferences and a complete one for netmail).

- Do not forget about the rich possibilities for the transfer of information,
which metacharacters provide in combination with the standard values ​​and together.

- If you put code in kludges, don't make the lines too long and make sure that their ends
are not wrapped on the next line by postal editors without a protective character.
Use the GC: kludge to make it easier for various software to sample code. 


                          Full Phainocode of the author

Phaino 4.1 _BD-L+=1P-Tx* b011279 XX3 bod1641 kg56 HarBb3 har000 eyeBb4
skn1 drs331 bad555 Hea4 hea4 sp1 PC9353 hw2+DMPmns Net353 netBFQ-Wp- Int4
com2 msg2$< ech3 sl3 OS3151 osD$W>L prg001 dem2 WWWCHX- CvP0 wrz1$ hex3 pol4
ec4 Eg1 pub4 gov3 USA2 mil1 gun? exe1 sex5 abo5 god1 (c)1 hak45+ drg5 xsc4
UFO4=1< fuk3 psyF/A/9 PsyINTP/INTJm mus01 TV2 gam01 RP3 hum2 lab25355 lov5
lib11-44 edu45 lng3>eo=1< mth4 ph& God0 co1< arg4< hom5 cok2 veg4 drnjt
petacqr nat2$;
